So let's make sure that finding a user address works or an entered address and we'll do that in the
find address handler here of course. For that we need to do a couple of things, we need to get access
to what the user entered here,
we need to prevent the default so that submitting a form doesn't actually submit it, it doesn't try
to send the request to the server,
we then need to reach out to Google's servers and translate a user entered address into coordinates,
latitude and longitude,
this is how you express places, coordinates on the map or on in a geographic way in general.
So let's start simple,
we will get the event argument here and we can call prevent default on that to prevent the submission
of the form.
Next I want to get the address the user entered and we can get this by using event target which will
be our form,
that's the target which triggered the event in the end
and there we can use query selector to get the input in the form and I only have one input in there,
so we'll get that input then.
Now I'm not interested in the entire input, I'm just interested in the value the user entered, so we can
access .value here to get that value.
Now we can do a little bit of validation here and check if we don't have an address somehow or if we
do have an address but after trimming it, the length is zero which means the user didn't enter something
and then I just show an alert where I say invalid address entered,
please try again and I return. If we make it past this if check, we know we have a valid address or at least
we have some text and we can try to look it up.
So here, I will again show my loading spinner then, create a new modal and point at the same content I
have up there, loading modal content, we can actually take both arguments we have up there and we could
therefore also refactor this into its own method
but I'll just do it like this and I will call show here to show that spinner. Next,
we need to make sure that we reach out to Google's servers because they do have an API for us which
we can use to translate the entered address which could be something like a street name into coordinates
and I don't want to do this here in this class,
this class should be focused on working with the inputs and so on,
instead I'll create a new folder, utility and you can name this however you want and in there
I'll create a location.js file and this should be a file which holds utility methods for getting
coordinates for an address for example. So in here, in the location.js file, we can add a new method or a new
function now just like this, doesn't have to be in a class, get coords from address would be a fitting
name where we get an address as an argument and this should be a function and we then make a HttpRequest
in here and return the coordinates.
Now I want to export this function so that we can use it from outside this file as well and I will add
the async keyword inside of it because we will use a promise in here, we will send a HttpRequest and
I want to use that async await syntax you learned about in the course to have this more readable promise
syntax instead of using then and catch but of course you could use then and catch as you learned it
in the async code section.
Now in here, we need to send a request and we need to send this to Google's servers, to be precise we'll
need the geocoding API
Google offers and if you google for Google geocoding API, you should find the official docs here.
Now as always here you can learn all about that and you will need an API key and a working project for
all that
but with that, we can just copy this example URL here by clicking this copy button and send a
request to this with our real address for what you want to get coordinates. So we can use the fetch API
here which of course not all browsers support, so we might want to use a library like axios instead
but here to also practice fetching again, I'll go with that and send a request to this URL,
enter it as a string here. Now actually, I'll not enter it as a string but as a template literal so that
we can inject content into the string easily because there are a couple of parts that we'll need to replace,
for example the address. This is a dummy address which is getting looked up here, Google headquarters
and we can replace this entire part here with our actual address,
so here I'll inject some content,
same for the API key, we need to replace that and I want to inject it because I will set up a global
constant here, Google API key where I want to store that key and that can be the same key as you're using
in your index.html file,
so here you can grab this key which we added there earlier and add this here in this constant in the
location.js file as a string and then we can use the Google API key here as a key which is injected
into this dynamically generated string.
Now for the address, I want to use the address we're getting here but one important note, since it will be part
of a URL, we have to make sure it's converted such that whitespace or special characters are translated
into a URL-friendly encoding and for that we got a helpful utility function built into Javascript
or exposed by the browser in Javascript I should say and that's the encodeURI function. It's globally
available, made available by the browser, we can pass in a string and we get a URL-friendly string back.
So here I got my URL address which we can now inject into our string here and with that, we should send
a request to a URL that works there. It should be a get request so we don't need to configure it in
any other way and instead we can just await it because I'm using async here and store the response
in a constant, of course as I mentioned, you could use then and catch as well. Now if the response is not
okay, then we know we have an error,
so I want to throw a new error here where I say failed to fetch coordinates, please try again. If that's not
the case, I want to extract the response data by awaiting response.json
and now that should be our coordinates data
but and that's a Google specific thing,
it could also fail without using an error status code,
so without making it into this if block and we can tell if it failed
if we have an error message property in the response body. So it will have a 200 status code
and still it might have such an error message which signals that it failed.
So in this case, I also want to throw a new error using this built-in error constructor function Javascript
provides and there, use the error message as an error message
I forward,
so the error constructor function here is really built into Javascript and globally available there.
If we make it past all these if checks, we know we have a successful response and we get the response
data which should hold the coordinates.
Now we can console log the data here to get a feeling for its structure,
of course this is also something you find in the official docs though, it will look something like this
and in there what you'll have is a results
key which is an array
and the first element of the array is itself an object which will have a geometry property which will
be an object with a location property, which will be an object with latitude and longitude
and that's the thing I'm interested in. So to extract this here, we can get our coordinates by accessing
data results and there, the first array element as I just explained, there the geometry key and there,
the location key and that will then be an object with the lat and long keys
and I want to return these coordinates, these coordinates object as part of this get coords from address
function
and now, we can use this in share place.